# Price Forecast IEX

## Overview

The **Price Forecast IEX** project is designed to forecast energy prices, utilizing data from the IEX (Indian Energy Exchange), weather data and power satations data from different locations. The project focuses on day-ahead and real-time market forecasts, employing machine learning techniques for accurate predictions.

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#price-forecast-iex)
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Features](#features)
- [Training Models](#training-models)
- [Forecasting](#forecasting)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3
- Required Python packages (specified in requirements.txt)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/price-forecast-iex.git
   cd price-forecast-iex

2. Create a Virtual Environment (Optional but Recommended):

   ```bash
   python3 -m venv env

3. Activate the virtual environment:

   ```bash
   # On Windows
   .\venv\Scripts\activate

   # On macOS/Linux
   source venv/bin/activate  

4. Install Dependencies:

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt

## Usage

The project is structured to facilitate both the training of models and the forecasting process. Detailed instructions for training and forecasting can be found in the respective sections below.

## Project Structure

The repository is organized into distinct modules to handle data processing, feature engineering, model training, and forecasting. 

- **LICENSE:** The license file outlining the terms and conditions for using the project.

- **README.md:** The main documentation file providing an overview and instructions for the project.

- **config:**
  - **pycache:** Cached Python files generated by the interpreter.
  - **locations.yaml:** YAML file containing location-related configurations.
  - **paths.py:** Python file with path-related configurations.
  - **utils.py:** Python file containing utility functions.

- **data:**
  - **external:** External data used in the project.
  - **processed:** Processed data generated during data manipulation.
  - **raw:** Raw, unprocessed data.

- **deploy:**
  - **dam_train.py:** Python script for deploying the DAM (Day-Ahead Market) training process.

- **env:** Virtual environment folder for Python.

- **forecasts:**
  - **day_ahead:** Folder for storing day-ahead forecasts.
  - **directional:** Folder for storing directional forecasts.

- **logs:** Logs generated during the project.

- **models:** Storage for trained machine learning models.

- **notebooks:**
  - **dam_train.ipynb:** Jupyter notebook for DAM training.

- **reports:**
  - **day_ahead:** Reports related to day-ahead forecasts.
  - **directional:** Reports related to directional forecasts.

- **src:**
  - **data_ingestion:**
    - **pycache:** Cached Python files related to data ingestion.
    - **iex_data.py:** Python script for ingesting IEX data.
    - **weather_data.py:** Python script for ingesting weather data.
  - **feature_engineering:**
    - **pycache:** Cached Python files related to feature engineering.
    - **build_features.py:** Python script for building features.
  - **model_building:**
    - **pycache:** Cached Python files related to model building.
    - **eval_model.py:** Python script for model evaluation.
    - **train_model.py:** Python script for model training.


## Training Models

To train models for day-ahead and directional forecasts, follow the steps outlined in the 'Training Models' section of the documentation. Ensure that the required dependencies are installed in your virtual environment.

## Forecasting

Forecasting day-ahead and directional predictions is made straightforward with the 'Forecasting' section. The provided scripts enable users to generate forecasts based on the trained models.

## Accuracy Evaluation

Evaluate the accuracy of the forecasts using the relevant metrics outlined in the 'Accuracy Evaluation' section. This step is crucial for assessing the reliability of the models.

## Contributing

If you would like to contribute to this project, please follow the guidelines in the 'Contributing' section.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Acknowledgments

We acknowledge the use of data from the Indian Energy Exchange (IEX) and appreciate the efforts of contributors to open-source libraries and tools used in this project.
